# Mpox Data Analysis

## Description
This project involves the analysis and visualization of global mpox case and death data. The dataset, provided by the World Health Organization (WHO), includes country-wise data on mpox cases, deaths, and trends. The goal of this project is to derive insights and trends from the provided data to support public health analysis and decision-making.

## Data Source
The dataset used in this project is sourced from the World Health Organization (WHO). The data is available through the WHO Monkeypox Global Dashboard. The specific dataset is the 'Cummulative Cases and Deaths by Country' dataset in Section 2.4.1

### Citation
This project utilizes the following dataset:

**World Health Organization (WHO). (2024). 2022-24 Mpox Outbreak: Global Trends. Geneva: World Health Organization, 2024. Available online: https://worldhealthorg.shinyapps.io/mpx_global/ (last accessed: 08/18/2024).**

## Project Structure

- **data/**: Contains the dataset used for analysis.
  - `mpox_data.csv`: The main dataset containing country-wise mpox case and death data.
  
- **scripts/**: Contains the scripts for data analysis and visualization.
  - `data_visualization.py`: Script for generating visualizations from the dataset.
  - `data_analysis.py`: Script for performing data analysis on the dataset.

- **output/**: Contains the output figures generated by the scripts.
  - **figures/**: Stores the generated plots and visualizations.

## Usage

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/mpox-data-analysis.git
    ```
2. Install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
3. Run the data analysis script:
    ```bash
    python scripts/data_analysis.py
    ```
4. Run the visualization script:
    ```bash
    python scripts/data_visualization.py
    ```
